the United States says a floating dock
is now anchored near Gaza and ready to
receive Maritime Aid shipments for the
United Nations to distribute the UN on
Thursday said it is still finalizing
operational plans how to do so but
reiterated that land Crossings can bring
in more Aid much faster to Stave off the
horrors of famine we must use the
fastest and most obvious route to reach
the people of Gaza and for that we need
access by land now the US says right now
the main land Crossings in Gaza remain
either closed unsafe or not logistically
viable and even if Aid trucks get in
they lack fuel to get to places to
distribute it basically the bottom line
is only small amounts of food are
getting in and and uh in terms of fuel
the fuel Imports have for all practical
purposes stopped we desperately need
more fuel humanitarian organizations
echoed the sentiments of the UN that
land not sea should be the focus there
are hundreds of trucks waiting on the
other side of Rafa crossing the main
land route um to get that that
previously we were getting Aid into Gaza
and you know filled with food filled
with medical supplies and they're not
being allowed through what we need is
for Israel to reopen all of the crossing
points into Gaza all of the land
Crossing points into Gaza and to allow
um unfettered and unrestricted access
Israel is openly hostile to the un even
killing a un security officer and
wounding another in Rafa this week this
calls into question how safely the UN
could deliver Aid the United Nations is
in a very difficult situation where
they're being expected to provide for
example this humanitarian support to the
people of Gaza at the same time um they
have to provide for the security and
safety of their staff members even when
you have uh the opening of this port
even as you have more Aid come in even
if you have the fuel and the ability to
distribute it you still have this
critical issue that is really really
prevalent on the ground in Gaza right
now which is you know the communication
with the Israeli military and the
ability to safely deliver this Aid and
that is the real problem that the UN
faces right now rushing to come up with
a plan on how to safely deliver aid from
a floating dock it didn't build didn't
request and doesn't even think is an
ideal way to get Aid into aaza and could
be nothing more than a costly
distraction Gabriel zando Al jazer at
the United Nations in New
York make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer